1. the rabbit charm can just make you run faster while held / used or something. we can take its teleporting properties and put them elsewhere on another item. its a good mechanic but doesnt fit thematically its like reality warping  the thing is as a jump back escape thing it makes no sense bc an enemy will just... walk two steps forward at you while ur jumping back so whats the point. maybe if it was a dodge chance where if ur about to take damage from an attack it has a chance of jumping you out of the way or something. thats kinda cool.   my brother saw the item ans was  like "this is awesome" but then.. theres nothing work jumping over, no gaps in the ground that make you fall and die, no tar pits that if you get stuck in trigger enemies to come get you, no pits that break ur leg, and it says it doesnt ignore traps or whatever in the description. so it really feels... pointless. 

areas in the gen that require you to jump over a gap, or 2, or maybe a BIG gap, would be good bc then its like "oh maybe if i have an item that can get me over that, even if its a weird conditional thing, then i can jump over. 

hell a wings that lets you not interact with ground things or fall for a little bit as long as you keep moving, or a jumping leap attack item, rabit foot or something for a simple 2 tile hop. these are all things that could be good right. 

2.a. the lever is just standin as is. its not obvious what it is. yeah needs to be something that really stands out as a lever, could be a wall sticking variant too right. or a glowing box you have to break and inside is a button item you press? not saying use all these variants on forest you know like obviously some of these make more sense elsewhere, right, also sudden idea for mapgen. a tunnel made of tree you pass under? we dont have overhead tiles that entities render under huh, and then i guess if ur under teh "group" they go transparent or dither or something, that could be really good and insanely useful in different zones. a giant log you walk into, an ice sculpture u walk under, grated metal you walk under or across idk. hmm having fake steppable levels where the level ur on depends on the direction you walked ont othe tile is a big deal tho does it make implementation much harder? one way "cliff" ledges like pokemon, or zelda you step off, "ladders and steps" where really ur just walking half speed up them. 

2.b. the shop yeah needs work and we ned to very obviously declare when its pick 3 time, and shop time, the littel text in the bottom left isnt cutting it. and the whole like clikc and it opens ur inventory and press drop thats fucked up it needs to be like select the one you want, and if you dont ahve room it says "NO ROOM" or something, then opens up ur inventory and its like, pick the one you want to drop and put this new item in that slot. and then needs a confirmation. b should actually cancel. it should be able to cancel and go back. we should be using south and east as A and B for this. we should not be using a and b for stuff in game probably. reload might should be left trigger. right trigger or whatever the fuck should NOT be actuating buys or selects in shop or pick three, picking up a key should be like, right face west, x right. not a. my bro was getting confused about that. going to a key or level mashing x why it not do etc. 

A. unrelated idea i just had, tall objects that take up one tile that have complicated interactions like, a pillar that if hit shakes the cieling and causes ice cycles to fall down, or a pillar of ice (obviously obvscure whats behind them. fake depth like the zombie stack)  that when falls it instacrushes stuff, makes shadow as it falls, could be pretty dangrous. melting it with fire might cause it to make water around it as it shrinks. these can be different types of pillars.   different biomes can have different ones of these, stone, a tree that burns bottom up slowly, a tree that you walk under it and it sprinkles spores, a room with a bunch of taller sakura trees and they dribble constantly little blowing sakuras debris that time out fairly quickly. screenspace reflectiosn on water? ice? where the ice distorts it or something? idk. giant pillar more ideas a big leg of some structure its just immovable its like a truss, maybe one is a leg of a giant machine thats like, multitile consuming? and its the leg of a crane, or maybe a light pole you hit it falls sideways and the light shatters and goes out? lots of street lights over in the lava area would be good i feel. this kind of breaking light fixture stuff we need more of. document all this stuff. we want all this class of decoration and variants of them for each biome some n count of them. i think its good. rooms that have them in a configuration, more or less or whatever.  a tree that drops bee hives would be great. 

B. we can have a big wooded tree root system its a fallen giant tree and you have to hack through it with an axe or burn through it to get to the nearby room. again we dont have the spiders and burnable webs and tricky web room. my brother really liked trying to get pickaxes to dig through the forest wall, he felt clever. things like that would be nice not just pickaxe all the time you know its game breakingly good right. more ideas im riffing now a shovel to make shallow holes, or maybe some wall is shovel diggable, but you need pick for tough wall? could give us more variation in the wall tile. 

C. i like the idea of a super dangerous forest level where its mega connected like super populated by burnables like a Timber forest variant, and any fire the player makes will just set the whole fucking place off and burn all sorts of stuff, like 80% of the level. well have to do a perf test to make sure. the whole level can be burnable efficiently. should be doable easily. 

3. make the swap seed a blink seed, and have it be a thrown thing that will teleport you to where it hits. b. i like seed ideas. we probably need some fruits, citrus, pommes, etc. berries. snap seeds you get a stack of from a snappy bush or something? idk. or maybe theres a bunch on the ground in an area, snap seed piles, big, med small, individuals, and you get a stack. and they throw and pop on contact doing like 2 points of fire damage and 5 damage or something?

4. yeah the mimic isnt that scary as is, kinda common, and doesnt drop anything ebtter than a normal box. half the time i feel like its not worth engaging with. 

5. bears need to be strong as fuck, not something you mess with lightly, also need scenes. some sleeping bears in a den area on bear nests,   we probably need some bone pile breakables around,   bear poop,   a big bear swatting at a stream and getting fish / eating, oh fish thats a good idea. feesh. 

6. hmm bosses. ah. hmm well we could do this zelda style where you enter a room, and after a sec the door locks and thers a mini boss, then door opens? (lol you could dig out somehow)   or a boss could just be in an area ON floor 4 of a biome. right, vagante does that. so the boss is a large gen somewhere in floor 4 you dont know where it is. ythen you find its area or something. and it can participate in changing the world that way.  idk if 2x2 entities make sense? multi tile entities? hmmm. we can probably get creative with this. 

7. yes we raelly need this. the snail in particular and many of the enemies confused my brother. he didnt know if they were doing anything, winding up or anything. also he noted that many of the enemies had this kind of "instant attack on sight" thing. i think the zombie has it, and that firey circle thing with a gun in the fire level (which is an insanely obnoxious enemy that doesnt make sense btw. wtf is it ghost with a gun? fires instantly and ignites you? its impossible to avoid taking damage from it) ((those circle ball enemies i think were from during the initial gauche rust to cpp port and so actually you didnt design them. they might need to be removed / reworked entirely i cant tell what it is. a ballman with cat ears. my bro called it a slime with a gun lol)) the zombie used to do a swipe sprite on you when he attacked. maybe it wa sa particle. not sure. but we need that back in. and a pass on all the enemis probably fo rthat kinda stuff. 

8. it came unfueld as far as we could tell. we didnt know it was a lamp thought it was a lighting weapon were trying to fuel it at a boiler or something lol... never tried holding it to make light. its a fun toy idea but yeah gottra change the name a bit. other silly light items would be good too. glowstick stack, flash light, dead flashlight lol (its okay to have useless items since we have so many everywhere and people seem to just playing around with all the ideas, toys)

IDEA. we might need some small lsess interactable enemies somehow. idk if they should be off the grid, or just small and around like, things that you can break or disturb or conditionally appear based on environment or maybe they fade flea or follow an entity, but to add some flair. example, mini bees around bees or the bee nest. mini bugs on the ground right. moving breakable props / interactables sort of in the category of twigs you step on, but moving. mini moths fluttering around the moths.   fireflies. im sure you can think of a lot of these. these would go really far for decorating the world more. we should have a list of n of these per zone i think and obviously some might just be aournd randomly, but some might be in room prefabs or whatever. unique areas / constructions right. 

IDEA. right now our world gen is a series of room carvouts, but do we have any multi room things? like in spelunky theres the normal rooms, but theres also the snake pit which is like 2-3 rooms tall, depending. its like its own flavor thing that can gen also into a level, not super common, but not too rare, you might see one on a play through,  and would let us do things like a spider cave, or a snake tunnel or something. with good shit on the inside. maybe a 2x2 giant tree room with gnarled roots and you try to find a hole that lets you go in, and that fades a big group of tiles, idk. we need n of these per zone. spelunky has these and they are a gret way to add flair

IDEA: i havent seen the ghost anywhere. are we still doing the 2 minute ghost. 

9. yeah the ice flag. we thought it was an item not an objective. more stuff items frozen in blocks that you melt out would be good. or an enemy in a ice block that if melted comes out lol, maybe some ices spontaniously crack. maybe theres weak ice tiles and if you step on it it cracks and then maybe if a weak ice tile has a weak ice tile near it crack then it cracks with hsome high chacne. so then ice can break when hit and cracks can spread. i think thats cool idea. can use that mechanic around

10. the beam enemies and the reflectors and boiler robot are really cool. uh but yeah werent very dangerous. we also were neglecting some basic ice tropes. yeti that throws you when it touches you but does almost no damage, but maybe if you hit a wall you get mini stunned and take damage. but mnaybe yeties dont chace you just throw you if ur next to them. a king yeti,  mammoth. that sorta thing you know. penguins blowing ice. i like that we have super creative stuff too but simple readable stuff also is good. and yeah ideally enemies should work great in their little spawn set, but they should also work outside of that. like if a beam enemy appears outside his beam designed set room it should still function somewhat. tho its fine if its a fish outa water. 

11. agreed

12. pocket door yeah. there could also be variants. i like the idea that you throw it at a wall, and then it makes a door appear on the other side of that wall regardless of how thick (or loop around the map to the other side if its the map egde) thats super useful and really cool. can also ahve a evil pocket door that puts its b door at a random place. could also ahve a heavenn pocket door that warps you to the exit.  i like these variant ideas. more ideas. easy to code. the two placed pad warp thing is good too, can be pocket door or can be moved to something else that makes sense in a different theme. idk if pocket door is a zone locked item or if is an item that can appear in any zone. i bet we have those categories right like some items appear anywhere. some are zone locked, and then theres also chances of out of zone drops (should be really low)

13. yeah seems good. 

okay sorry this is a lot. you should write this all done. and generate tasks. some of this you should expand into many tasks and entire philosophies some of these should cause reviews of old ideas. what do you think?
