User feedback — 2026-09-16. Wording preserved; individual send times unavailable.
Source: this conversation. Separate from implementation decisions in MASTER_TASKS.md.

--- Frozen logs and missing Forest content ---

okay those ice arches look like frozen logs. rename them as frozen logs and put them on 2-1 only, and then figure out something totally different for ice arches lol.

i feel like the forest is so samey and im just wondering where all the things i talked about before are. the larger multi room structures, the common, rarer etc scenes. bear dens, spider dens, snake pits, holes to step in, mud, vines. were just missing so much. its been like 12+ hours. is it bureid only in docs? buried in tasks? did the tasks never get made?

--- Depth, combat density, fishing gold ---

[Image #1] gonna have to be careful with things like this. for tall stuff it needs to be z ordered bottom to top by y yeah?

also so far the most fun area combat wise has been the haunted house. i think we need tons of fucking enemies in some place. and weapons maybe should have a lot more durability like ten times what they have now. world should be more cluttered. a little more gauntlet in the game you know?

comment: fishing line cant currently pull gold idk why.

regarding: That was a
  failure to turn the ideas into executable work.  uh... i hope theres not tons of shit ive been saying that has just been acknolwedged but not turned into tasks ._. oh god.

--- Bear variants and layered generation ---

• The new bear area will occupy two connected room footprints, with a stream approach and a sheltered sleeping hollow—
  not just a bear dropped into a normal room. It will have its own population and scenery budget, so ordinary
  encounters can’t consume its allocation.

no dude. like theres supposed to be variants. like could just be one bear roaming. 
there was this thing of a bear eating fish from a stream. we used to have these water source streams in the wall on forest i went thru entire forest i never see them now. 
we wanted like a full room of sleeping nested bears baby bears moma papas etc. 

or just a room with one LARGE bear. and we had this thing where we need skeletons and bones in the room. cuz the bear ate things. rotten fish etc. 

any time i give you something that can be content in the game, we need it to become tasks. every time, and it at the very least should be recorded... when i said it and as i said it. luckily we have this chat log i think we can check through my smessages. [Image #1] look im on ice in this area... thers.. nothing here. and i see the same pattern with the two holes but those holes could appear in a few places. you need to use like rng on these scenes. are you hard coding them? they should be layers of probabilities and components appearing on components. prefabs with dice rolls. everything in the game should be like that. like the spelunky gen. passes layers and layers of probabilities and conditions. we shouldnt just have the same prefab scene room popped a bunch of times it makes no sense. we need a major evaluation of the scenes and sets and world gen then bc i keep seeing the same sets and its not quite right. its okay to have some fixed but a lot should be layers of probabilities of like prefab prefab on prefab rolls etc. yeah? rolls for item spots. 

so it should be like, generate things at room level, room gen has layers of prefabs on top. then cross room pass. then like a whole level pass right. 

i dont understand how our current gen works but i imagine its not as sophisticated as it needs to be and thats why were not getting richness in our patterns, like our patterns arent even rotating. 

note this. please. 

continue


--- Giant-tree canopy visibility — 2026-09-16 ---
Attachments: Image #1 /tmp/codex-clipboard-s6nh7v.png; Image #2 /tmp/codex-clipboard-FTKLaM.png.

the giant tree was awesome. i found one. its not the same every time right? also [Image #1] if i step out of the tree [Image #2] lol i cant see. uh is there some way we can make the tree top like,,, conform more closesly to the area where it goes invisible when ur inside? 

its canopy blocks a huge portion of the map. i mean cutting the canopy a bit so its not just a circle might be alright too, hmm. idk what the right answer is here

put this task on the list

continue.

--- Cross-room growth, generation inspector and floor pacing — 2026-09-16 ---

i agree. i agree. yes. okay. now were on the same page. additionally. i think we can do things spelunky cant bc its a tiny map with tiny rooms. we have big rooms and a much bigger world and our character is faster and moves in squares. its not platforming. so we can actually go much further. for example, we can do carving and growth passes that spelunky has never tried. such as

after we generate the map, a particular room might have a scene where theres spiders right. rather than just having thaht room, that spider room can eat out lines or polygons that raster space out into the world.

right or maybe the giant tree rasters big roots out into the world as lightningy sprawling root tiles. maybe it converts non wood tiles it connects with into wood tiles.  a road could carve up a whole plausable route. a train. etc.

a river might have a source in say, one room, and then snake and carve through the whole level, potentially just stopping at drops where it pours into the abyss, or could go all the way to the edge of the map where it goes into a drain. right it can snake in the same way a river might. could be a fast and straight river. could be a loop with lilypads you can sit on and ride the loop. or logs.
could be a deep river with a bank you can stand on, but you instadie in the deep parts.

might be straight and fast might be wandering like the sort of veinous digging thing rivers do where tehy snake. theres probably an algorithm we can use to do that.

it would be nice to have a mode where, you kind of turn off the branchy tree overlay and top thing. zoom out and center the cam in the map. and i can just hit regen over and over. and if you check splonks-cpp it has this pattern where each frame we can put in annotations of various types (we should copy this) then i can see debug info like, the lines used to gen the river, or the room variants. the rolls. the sub rooms. spawn points that have x's indicating no item spawned.

also once everything is generated we might do a pass of just like, dropping a few random orphaned itesm around, in walls, etc.

you feel me? youve been leaning really heavily into the templates and template rotation right. and its already really cool, but were gonna have to do more to get it unique. and also we can tune what appears on what floor.

so this tool you make for me right.

im thinking 1-1 is really simple. fewer simpler enemies. moths, maybe a zombie, some bats. squito, chicken. kind of happier, streams and stuff right. but then 1-2 some real chaos comes, more complicated, by 1-3 all bets are off its the full level in swing. 1-4 has the boss, and transition elements unique to 1-4 right since its on the border of 2-1?

anyways document what im saying and repspond to this

--- Forest-only goal, open sectors, ants, gnomes and controller inspector — 2026-09-16 ---

yeah and its okay if carving or whatever dramatically opens up the world too. its cool if it feels like a big open area with sectors. the rooms we have can feel a bit too deliberate. we are getting much much closer though with the mix around. i like current gen so lets pin the current commit. and then actually i want you to save our current goal and stop it, and then i want you to just work on workd gen for 1-1 through 1-4 and make this tool for me. can you give me a new goal for you? i want you to iterate on it until the forest zone is just crazy.


i mean could have little ants, med ants, big ants. ants gathering from a big pile of sugar on one area, and pathing along to get back to somewhere right. a big ant could hold a big thing. medium ants dragging something that crushes you if it moves onto you, maybe theyre pulling it with ropes lol thats funny.   an ant with a whistle tooting at them.    and they could tell you in a bunch of places that oh this 1-n has been mega ant tainted, like i know im seeing ant things theres probably ant stuff here.

to constrain things a little should we have more limited themes so we dont have all these things at once or? do you think we should just trust the rolls. like as long as we assume a player will do like idk 10 runs. and were setting these things at say 10% that means theyll see this stuff once right.

more ideas for big world things. love your big forest area but, a mushroom forest that generates right. little gnomes in it. maybe they are really small and flee and scream when you get nearby. uh. running into little mushroom houses and slamming the door, maybe if you hit their house they get mad and come out and they have whole armies or something. gnomes on antback. gnomes with bows and arrow, crossbows, sticks and stuff. chasing you around. dont piss off the gnomes.

idk i think we need more themes major world modifiers. minor world modifiers. and then we need a gen that lets us mix all these things togethor stochastically. and then well probably spend a few days going back and forth tweaking them and ill gen zones and then. also. i need a button to jump in and play a zone. so like we have the cam centered. im genning zones. lets say on the main menu theres a dev option, and if i hit that it takes me to this zone gen view right. i should be able to use my controller and like bumper to switch levels, press a button to regen. zoom in out, pan around, and then hit a button to jump in and play it. and i should be able to see the seed too.

that way i can give feedback and playtest zones. this is gonna be really useful for us.

--- Generation timeline and pass stepping — 2026-09-16 ---

it would also be nice if the world level generation was somehow steppable like forward and backward? so i could see whats causing what. like scrub through time. not saying we record every modification but we obviously have PASSES right. so it would be nice to be able to step through the passes at the very least, maybe through each n in each pass assuming its loops.  not saying id use that all the time but it would make investigation dramatically easier right. then i can see okay why is the world fucked up in this way, scrub back. wow it looks good at pass 80%, oh the last step ruined everything. like that right.

--- Inspector eligibility and actual rolls — 2026-09-16 ---

maybe in this viewer on the left or something it shows me what elementes got rolled for this level? like 1-1 1-2, uh hmm and maybe i can see which is valid to roll also? that way i can see like, ah were missing BLA on 1-1 okay i see why it looks like this. okay i see 1-2 CAN ahve bla bla bla, in this case it has BLA
