i hope you document and write down that whole 1-13 and other little last message i gave you somewhere. verbatim cuz its so long i spent a long time on it. should go in docs somewhere in like user messages or something its too big good to keep around. 

btw more feedback of things i thought of and we realized while playing

1. theres items that totally dont belong in the forst showing up in the forest right now. ex. machine gun, rocket launcher. smg whatever. these should be insanely rare cross zone drops. its so strong it trivializes the game. he used smg through all of forest and never anyhting else. also the smg should get less ammo per ammo fill. we need to do rebalances on when things appear, how often etc. its great to have lots of toys to play with in each biome, and cross biome toys. wonderful. BUT you shouldnt be geting off biome STRONG items commonly.  like weapons in the forest should be weapons that belong in the forst you know. bow, blow gun, right. 

2. the fist is probably too strong. you prefer to use it now over any melee weapons, honestly its so good you can basically fight the whole game with it so far it feels like just running around punching things. it should be heavily nerfed. 
2.a. idea for stronger punching/ fisting, heavy glove which upgrades ur fist or something. augments to augment ur fist would be good. lighting fist or light fist or heavy, or firefist, etc. poison fist right. 

3. on the topic of balance. current augments are insanly strong. i know we havent put tons of work into the shop and the pick 3 at the end of the level but its SOO fucking wack. like the hearth one is too strong, but then my items might be like, walk faster, hearth, and then glowing plant seed lol. funny but. we gotta tune these better. and items can be good without being broken. and rememebr weve got like 16 levels in the game to worth with , the player will slowly get chances to become powerful. we dont need to give it all to them so early on right. we need a lot more of these augments, much more creative, and more balanced. both in terms of absolute tstrentgth and or also just when you can get them. 

i gues a point ehre is we gotta do some balancing work as were adding new content im feeling it. that being said my bro played for like an entire hour in just forest and loved it. so we are doing SOMETHING right.
